[OSDOCS-7580] information about autoscaler using CLI (#63942)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-cluster-autoscaler-cli-settings.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_cluster_admin/rosa-cluster-autoscaling.adoc
// * osd_cluster_admin/osd-cluster-autoscaling.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="rosa-cluster-cli-autoscale-settings_{context}"]
= Cluster autoscaling settings using the ROSA CLI

> 

Reviewer: Are these settings, options, or parameters? Should probably use the same term throughout.

Reviewer: Do these parameters appear in the interactive cluster install?

There are several options you can add to the cluster creation command to adjust autoscaling options. The tables explain all the configurable autoscaler settings when using the ROSA CLI (`rosa`).

[cols="4",options="header"]
|===
|Setting
|Description
|Type or Range

> |Example/Description

Reviewer 2: there's already a "description" column
```suggestion
|Example
```

Author: Adjusted.

|`--autoscaler-balance-similar-node-groups`
|Identify node groups with the same instance type and label set, and aim to balance respective sizes of those node groups.
|`boolean`

> |Add it to set to true, do not add to set to false.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Add it to set to true, omit the option to set to false.
```

|`--autoscaler-skip-nodes-with-local-storage`

> |If set, cluster autoscaler will never delete nodes with pods with local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|If set, cluster autoscaler does not delete nodes with pods that have local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPat.
```

> |If true, cluster autoscaler will never delete nodes with pods with local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|If set, cluster autoscaler will never delete nodes with pods with local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPat.
```

Author: Fixed.

> |If set, cluster autoscaler does not delete nodes with pods that have local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|If set, cluster autoscaler does not delete nodes with pods that have local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPath.
```

|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, do not add to set to false.

> |`--autoscaler-log-verbosity _int_`

Reviewer 3: I think this column only needs to write `--autoscaler-log-verbosity` no need to write `int` because there is a column of "Type or Range" behind it, the same for the other parameters.

|Autoscaler log level. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-log-verbosity 4`

|`--autoscaler-max-pod-grace-period _int_`
|Gives pods graceful termination time before scaling down, measured in seconds. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-max-pod-grace-period 0`

|`--autoscaler-pod-priority-threshold _int_`

> |The priority that a pod must exceed to cause the cluster autoscaler to deploy additional nodes. Expects an integer, can be negative. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The priority that a pod must exceed to cause the cluster autoscaler to deploy additional nodes. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use, can be negative. can be negative.
```

|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-pod-priority-threshold -10`

|`--autoscaler-ignore-daemonsets-utilization`

> |Should cluster-autoscaler ignore DaemonSet pods when calculating resource utilization for scaling down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|When set, the cluster-autoscaler ignores daemon set pods when calculating resource utilization for scaling down.
```

|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, do not add to set to false.

|`--autoscaler-max-node-provision-time _string_`

> |Maximum time cluster-autoscaler waits for node to be provisioned. Expects string comprised of an integer and time unit (ns,us,µs,ms,s,m,h), examples: 20m, 1h.

Reviewer 2: as we're already providing examples in another column:
```suggestion
|Maximum time cluster-autoscaler waits for node to be provisioned. Expects string comprised of an integer and time unit (ns,us,µs,ms,s,m,h).
```

Author: Fixed

> |Maximum time cluster-autoscaler waits for node to be provisioned. Expects string comprised of an integer and time unit (ns,us,µs,ms,s,m,h). Replace _string_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer 3: with the **string** you want to use

Reviewer 2: maybe even the part of ``Replace _string_ in the command with the number you want to use.`` is redundant and can be removed

Author: I was on the fence about it, but I erred on the side of too much info. I considered a customer who would just copy the command without changing anything, and then getting upset that we didn't tell them they needed to change the command in some way.

|`string`
|`--autoscaler-max-node-provision-time 35m`

|`--autoscaler-balancing-ignored-labels _strings_`
|A comma-separated list of label keys that cluster autoscaler should ignore when considering node group similarity.
|`string`

> |

Author: Added

> |A comma-separated list of label keys that cluster autoscaler should ignore when considering node group similarity. Replace _string_ in the command with the string you want to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|A comma-separated list of label keys that cluster autoscaler should ignore when considering node group similarity. Replace _strings_ in the command with the relevant labels.
```

> |A comma-separated list of label keys that cluster autoscaler should ignore when considering node group similarity. Replace _string_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer 3: Replace _strings_ in the command with the strings you want to use.

Author: Fixed

> |A comma-separated list of label keys that cluster autoscaler should ignore when considering node group similarity. Replace _string_ in the command with the string you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A comma-separated list of label keys that the cluster autoscaler should ignore when considering node group similarity. Replace _string_ in the command with the string you want to use.
```

|`--autoscaler-max-nodes-total _int_`

> |Maximum amount of nodes in the cluster (not only autoscaled ones). Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Maximum amount of nodes in the cluster, including the autoscaled nodes. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
```

|`integer`

> |`--autoscaler-max-nodes-total 1000`

Reviewer 2: something I just fixed also in the CLI (because 1000 is not really a number of nodes we support in OCM)
```suggestion
|`--autoscaler-max-nodes-total 180`
```

Reviewer 4: @osherdp what's the maximum supported value? We should limit it also in the UI.

Reviewer 2: see https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCM-3535
although not sure it's too critical to add a limit (just not document / default to something that is a bit too high)

Reviewer 2: there's no validation for the maximal value of it
I think in general we shouldn't overthink it. We can always add a restriction in the future. We just need the docs / default values to be reasonable

|`--autoscaler-min-cores _int_`
|Minimum number of cores to deploy in the cluster. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-min-cores 0`

|`--autoscaler-max-cores _int_`
|Maximum number of cores to deploy in the cluster. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-max-cores 100`

|`--autoscaler-min-memory _int_`
|Minimum amount of memory, in GiB, in the cluster. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-min-memory 0`

|`--autoscaler-max-memory _int_`
|Maximum amount of memory, in GiB, in the cluster. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-max-memory 4096`

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-enabled`
|Should cluster autoscaler scale down the cluster.
|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, do not add to set to false.

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-unneeded-time _string_`
|How long a node should be unneeded before it is eligible for scale down.
|`string`

> |

Author: Added.

> |Should cluster autoscaler scale down the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|If set, the cluster autoscaler should scale down the cluster.
```

Reviewer: What is the behavior if not set/false?

> |How long a node should be unneeded before it is eligible for scale down. Replace _string_ in the command with the string you want to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|How long a node should be unneeded before it is eligible for scale down. Replace _string_ in the command with an integer and time unit (ns,us,µs,ms,s,m,h).
```
same goes with the options below

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-utilization-threshold _float_`
|Node utilization level, defined as sum of requested resources divided by capacity, below which a node can be considered for scale down. Value should be between 0 and 1.

> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`float`
```

Author: Added.

> |How long a node should be unneeded before it is eligible for scale down. Replace _string_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer 3: with the string you want to use

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-utilization-threshold 0.5`

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-delay-after-add _string_`

> |How long after scale up that scale down evaluation resumes. Replace _string_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer 3: with the **string** you want to use

Author: Fixed

|`string`
|`--autoscaler-scale-down-delay-after-add 1h`

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-delay-after-delete _string_`

> |How long after node deletion that scale down evaluation resumes. Replace _string_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer 3: with the **string** you want to use

|`string`
|`--autoscaler-scale-down-delay-after-delete 1h`

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-delay-after-failure _string_`

> |How long after scale down failure that scale down evaluation resumes. Replace _string_ in the command with the number you want to use.

Reviewer 3: with the **string** you want to use

Author: Fixed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_cluster_admin/rosa-cluster-autoscaling.adoc
// * osd_cluster_admin/osd-cluster-autoscaling.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="rosa-cluster-cli-autoscale-settings_{context}"]
= Cluster autoscaling settings using the ROSA CLI

There are several options you can add to the cluster creation command to adjust autoscaling options. The tables explain all the configurable autoscaler settings when using the ROSA CLI (`rosa`).

[cols="4",options="header"]
|===
|Setting
|Description
|Type or Range

> |Default

Reviewer 2: Maybe instead of default we can have examples, it can be more clear and less committing

|`--autoscaler-balance-similar-node-groups`
|Identify node groups with the same instance type and label set, and aim to balance respective sizes of those node groups.
|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, do not add to set to false.

|`--autoscaler-skip-nodes-with-local-storage`
|If true, cluster autoscaler will never delete nodes with pods with local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPat.
|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, do not add to set to false.

|`--autoscaler-log-verbosity _int_`
|Autoscaler log level. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|1

|`--autoscaler-max-pod-grace-period _int_`
|Gives pods graceful termination time before scaling down, measured in seconds. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|

|`--autoscaler-pod-priority-threshold _int_`
|The priority that a pod must exceed to cause the cluster autoscaler to deploy additional nodes. Expects an integer, can be negative.
|`integer`
|

|`--autoscaler-ignore-daemonsets-utilization`
|Should cluster-autoscaler ignore DaemonSet pods when calculating resource utilization for scaling down.
|

> |

Author: Added this, thank you!

|Description
|Type or Range
|Example/Instruction

|`--autoscaler-balance-similar-node-groups`
|Identify node groups with the same instance type and label set, and aim to balance respective sizes of those node groups.
|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, omit the option to set to false.

|`--autoscaler-skip-nodes-with-local-storage`
|If set, cluster autoscaler does not delete nodes with pods that have local storage, for example, EmptyDir or HostPath.
|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, omit the option to set to false.

|`--autoscaler-log-verbosity _int_`
|Autoscaler log level. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-log-verbosity 4`

|`--autoscaler-max-pod-grace-period _int_`
|Gives pods graceful termination time before scaling down, measured in seconds. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-max-pod-grace-period 0`

|`--autoscaler-pod-priority-threshold _int_`
|The priority that a pod must exceed to cause the cluster autoscaler to deploy additional nodes. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use, can be negative.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-pod-priority-threshold -10`

> |`autoscaler-gpu-limit`

Reviewer 3: to be consistent with other parameters `--autoscaler-gpu-limit stringArray`

> |Minimum and maximum number of different GPUs in cluster. Cluster autoscaler does not scale the cluster beyond these numbers. The format should be a comma-separated list of "<gpu_type>:<min>:<max>".

Reviewer 2: the format is not a comma-separated list of "<gpu_type>:<min>:<max>", but rather this option should be repeated to apply more restrictions for more GPU types

Reviewer 2: and in the case of the CLI it's separated by a comma between the values, i.e. ``<gpu_type>,<min>,<max>``

|`array`

> |`--autoscaler-gpu-limit nvidia.com/gpu,0,10`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`--autoscaler-gpu-limit nvidia.com/gpu,0,10 --autoscaler-gpu-limit amd.com/gpu,1,5`
```

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't it be using `:` as the separator?
```suggestion
|`--autoscaler-gpu-limit nvidia.com/gpu:0:10`
```

Reviewer 2: not the last time I implemented this :sweat_smile:

Reviewer 2: ah, I see your point. that's correct

but for the UI there's a different page

Author: Thanks, all. I've adjusted the CLI write up to be different from the UI. Appreciated!

|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-min-cores 0`

|`--autoscaler-max-cores _int_`
|Maximum number of cores to deploy in the cluster. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-max-cores 100`

|`--autoscaler-min-memory _int_`
|Minimum amount of memory, in GiB, in the cluster. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-min-memory 0`

|`--autoscaler-max-memory _int_`
|Maximum amount of memory, in GiB, in the cluster. Replace _int_ in the command with the number you want to use.
|`integer`
|`--autoscaler-max-memory 4096`

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-enabled`
|If set, the cluster autoscaler should scale down the cluster.
|`boolean`
|Add it to set to true, omit the option to set to false.

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-unneeded-time _string_`
|How long a node should be unneeded before it is eligible for scale down. Replace _string_ in the command with an integer and time unit (ns,us,µs,ms,s,m,h).
|`string`
|`--autoscaler-scale-down-unneeded-time 1h`

|`--autoscaler-scale-down-utilization-threshold _float_`

> |Node utilization level, defined as sum of requested resources divided by capacity, below which a node can be considered for scale down. Value should be between 0 and 1.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|Node utilization level, defined as sum of requested resources divided by capacity, below which a node can be considered for scale down. Value must be between 0 and 1.
```
Cluster capacity? This behavior appears in the table below as well, but doesn't have the value requirement. Should it?
